# Introduction to Identification and Authentication Failures

Identification and authentication are critical components of web application security. However, failures in these processes can expose systems to significant vulnerabilities. This introduction outlines the nature of these failures and their implications.

## OWASP top 10 description

Confirmation of the user's identity, authentication, and session management is critical to protect against authentication-related attacks. There may be authentication weaknesses if the application:

- Permits automated attacks such as credential stuffing, where the attacker has a list of valid usernames and passwords.
- Permits brute force or other automated attacks.
- Permits default, weak, or well-known passwords, such as "Password1" or "admin/admin".
- Uses weak or ineffective credential recovery and forgot-password processes, such as "knowledge-based answers," which cannot be made safe.
- Uses plain text, encrypted, or weakly hashed passwords data stores (see A02:2021-Cryptographic Failures).
- Has missing or ineffective multi-factor authentication.
- Exposes session identifier in the URL.
- Reuse session identifier after successful login.
- Does not correctly invalidate Session IDs. User sessions or authentication tokens (mainly single sign-on (SSO) tokens) aren't properly invalidated during logout or a period of inactivity.

## What is Identification and Authentication?

Identification and authentication are fundamental elements of any security paradigm:

- **Identification** is asserting an identity—typically through a username or ID number in web applications.
- **Authentication** is verifying that identity—usually through a password, but it can also involve other methods like tokens, biometrics, and digital certificates.
