# Security Logging and Monitoring Failures

Security Logging and Monitoring are crucial aspects of maintaining a robust and secure web application environment. They allow system administrators and security teams to identify suspicious activities, track operational trends, detect anomalies, and respond to potential security threats in a timely manner.

## What is Security Logging?

Security Logging is the process of recording and storing actions and events within a system. This can include user activities, system errors, transactions, and more. Logs provide a traceable record of these activities and can be analyzed to uncover patterns or identify suspicious behavior.

```bash
# Example log entry:
[2023-06-09 10:15:32] - IP: 192.0.2.1 - User: exampleUser - Action: Login - Status: Success
```

## What is Security Monitoring?
Security Monitoring is the practice of continually observing a system to detect abnormalities or potential threats. Monitoring uses the information provided by logs, network traffic, and other sources to provide real-time (or near real-time) analysis and alerts.

## OWASP top 10 description:

This category is to help detect, escalate, and respond to active breaches. Without logging and monitoring, breaches cannot be detected. Insufficient logging, detection, monitoring, and active response occurs any time:

- Auditable events, such as logins, failed logins, and high-value transactions, are not logged.
- Warnings and errors generate no, inadequate, or unclear log messages.
- Logs of applications and APIs are not monitored for suspicious activity.
- Logs are only stored locally.
- Appropriate alerting thresholds and response escalation processes are not in place or effective.
- Penetration testing and scans by dynamic application security testing (DAST) tools (such as OWASP ZAP) do not trigger alerts.
- The application cannot detect, escalate, or alert for active attacks in real-time or near real-time.
