# OWASP Dependency-Track

**OWASP Dependency-Track** is an intelligent Software Composition Analysis (SCA) platform that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain. Dependency-Track leverages the capabilities of Software Bill of Materials (SBOM), enabling organizations to identify inherited risk and take proactive measures to reduce this risk in the application development lifecycle.

Here's a simple guide on how to deploy OWASP Dependency-Track:

## 1. Prerequisites

Ensure you have Docker installed on your machine.

## 2. Deploying Dependency-Track

The simplest way to deploy Dependency-Track is by using the official Docker image:

```docker pull owasp/dependency-track```

Next, to run the docker container:

```docker run -d -p 8080:8080 --name dependency-track owasp/dependency-track```

Wait for Dependency-Track to fully start. This process can take several minutes depending on the performance of your system.

## 3. Accessing Dependency-Track

Once the server is running, navigate to localhost:8080 (or your specific IP) in your web browser. The default credentials are 'admin' for both username and password. You are advised to change these credentials immediately after the initial login.

## Importing Results into OWASP Dependency-Track

Dependency-Track can import the results of several Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools. The specific process depends on the tool used, but here's a general idea:

## 1. Using the API

Dependency-Track provides a RESTful API that can be used to automate the upload of scan results. This will typically involve making a POST request to the `/api/v1/bom` endpoint with the scan results included in the request body.

For example, if you're using a tool like OWASP Dependency-Check, you would:

- Run Dependency-Check and generate a report in CycloneDX format.
- Submit a POST request to Dependency-Track with the generated CycloneDX BOM.

## 2. Using the Web Interface

You can manually upload scan results via the Dependency-Track web interface:

- Navigate to the project for which you want to upload scan results.
- Click on the BOM tab.
- Click on the "Upload BOM" button.
- Select the scan results file from your computer and click "Upload".

Remember that Dependency-Track uses a bill of materials approach. Therefore, you should ensure your SCA tools are generating output in a compatible format, such as CycloneDX.

Please make sure to check the official Dependency-Track documentation for detailed information regarding the API and other features.
